Imagine you're working as a
security analyst and receive
multiple alerts about suspicious
activity on the network.
You realize that you'll need to implement
additional security
measures to keep
these alerts from becoming
serious incidents. But
where do you start?
As an analyst, you'll
start by identifying
your organization's
critical assets and risks.
Then you'll implement
the necessary frameworks
and controls.
In this video, we'll discuss
how security professionals
use frameworks to continuously
identify and manage risk.
We'll also cover how to use
security controls to manage
or reduce specific risks.
Security frameworks
are guidelines
used for building plans
to help mitigate risks and
threats to data and privacy.
Security frameworks provide
a structured approach
to implementing a
security lifecycle.
The security lifecycle is
a constantly evolving
set of policies
and standards that define
how an organization
manages risks,
follows established guidelines,
and meets regulatory
compliance, or laws.
There are several
security frameworks
that may be used to manage
different types
of organizational
and regulatory compliance risks.
The purpose of security
frameworks include protecting
personally identifiable
information, known as PII,
securing financial information,
identifying security weaknesses,
managing organizational risks,
and aligning security
with business goals.
Frameworks have four
core components and
understanding them
will allow you to
better manage potential risks.
The first core component is
identifying and documenting
security goals.
For example, an organization
may have a goal to
align with the E.U.'s General
Data Protection Regulation,
also known as GDPR.
GDPR is a data protection
law established to
grant European
citizens more control
over their personal data.
A security analyst may be
asked to identify and document
areas where an organization
is out of compliance with GDPR.
The second core
component is setting
guidelines to achieve
security goals.
For example, when implementing
guidelines to achieve
GDPR compliance,
your organization
may need to develop
new policies for how to handle
data requests from
individual users.
The third core component
of security frameworks is
implementing strong
security processes.
In the case of GDPR,
a security analyst working for
a social media company
may help design
procedures to ensure
the organization
complies with verified
user data requests.
An example of this type
of request is when a user
attempts to update or delete
their profile information.
The last core component of
security frameworks is
monitoring and
communicating results.
As an example, you may monitor
your organization's
internal network and report
a potential security
issue affecting
GDPR to your manager or
regulatory compliance officer.
Now that we've introduced
the four core components
of security frameworks,
let's tie them all together.
Frameworks allow analysts
to work alongside
other members of the
security team to document,
implement, and use the policies
and procedures that
have been created.
It's essential for an entry-level
analyst to understand
this process because
it directly affects
the work they do and how they
collaborate with others.
Next, we'll discuss
security controls.
Security controls are safeguards
designed to reduce
specific security risks.
For example, your company
may have a guideline
that requires
all employees to complete
a privacy training to reduce
the risk of data breaches.
As a security analyst,
you may use a software
tool to automatically
assign and track which
employees have completed
this training.
Security frameworks
and controls are
vital to managing
security for all types of
organizations and
ensuring that everyone is
doing their part to maintain
a low level of risk.
Understanding their
purpose and how
they are used allows analysts to
support an organization's
security goals
and protect the
people it serves.
In the following videos,
we'll discuss some
well-known frameworks
and principles that
analysts need to
be aware of to minimize risk
and protect data and users.